---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Building for the Future
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-01-17
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  
---
    A couple years ago I had just started my journey at the University of Hawaii at Manoa and had decided to pursue computer science as my major. To be honest, I had little to no knowledge about computer science and what students in that major learned about. It just sounded interesting to me and I didn't have anything else that I really wanted to study so I landed in this major by default. Taking ICS 111 was a big challenge for me. Going into that class I had no idea about how coding worked and I didn't have much experience with technology. However, that class helped me to learn a lot about the basics of java and it really got me interested in computer science. ICS 211 was even more challenging for me but it did help me to really solidify my understanding of java and coding. We went over a lot of data structures, sorting methods, and sorting methods; which will all probaly be really important for the future. Up until ICS 311, I feel like I haven't really done any serious software engineering.
    There is so much that I would like to learn in this software engineering class. At the moment, I feel like my knowledge of coding is still really limited and I have a lot more room for improvement. I think that the WADs will really help me a lot to become a more proficient coder. The time limits in the WADs will get me used to coding and thinking fast and maybe eventually coding will become like second nature for me. Learning java script in this class is also really cool. I'm always open to learning new languages because they will only help me for the future. 
    In addition, I know very little about what actually goes into software engineering. I would like to learn about what it's like to actually work on a large scale software project with lots of other people. I still don't know what part of computer science I want to focus my studies on so this class could play a huge role on what I decide to do. I'm excited to see what kinds of projects we will undertake in this class. I want to experience what real professional software engineers go through on a daily basis. 
    In conclusion, this class has a lot to offer and I plan on making the most of it and learning as much as I can. Understanding how software is created is going to be really cool and working together with other people to build programs is going to be a really good experience too.
    
